What is virtualization?
Answer: When we are accessing something (machine or resources) with the help of internet, it is known as virtualization. If it's a machine accessing with the help of internet, it is known as virtual machines.
What type of architecture is used with Docker and Kubernetes?
Answer: Microservice-based architecture. In this approach, bigger applications are divided into small, small independent parts that can work independently.
What is an Image?
Answer: Packaging of binary, library, dependencies with the operating system packed in one box is known as an image.
What is a Container?
Answer: Running an image is known as container. It's a running application.
What is a Node?
Answer: VM (Virtual Machine) plus application installed is called Node.
What is the real-time CPU memory configuration used in production?
Answer: Standard size mentioned was 16 CPUs, 32GB RAM (though the instructor noted this varies based on requirements).
What is the latest CentOS version?
Answer: Version 10 is the latest.
What is Docker?
Answer: With the help of Docker, we can build, ship, and run any application anywhere.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. What is Docker?
Docker is an open-source containerization platform tool that converts application code with binaries and dependencies, making it lightweight, portable, and environment-friendly. With Docker, we can build, refine and ship images from one environment to another in containerized form.
2. What is the difference between Docker Pull and Docker Run?
Docker Pull: Only downloads the image from Docker Hub
Docker Run: Downloads the image AND creates a container from it, then runs the application
3. What is Docker Hub?
Docker Hub is a registry where all Docker images are maintained. It has around 6.3 million public repositories. It can be used for personal or professional purposes, with images being either public or private.
4. Docker Architecture Flow:
Docker client connects to Docker daemon
Docker daemon checks if image is available locally
If not available, daemon pulls image from Docker Hub
Daemon creates a new container from the image
Output is displayed in the terminal
5. What is the difference between IT and EXEC commands?
IT (interactive mode): Used for first time entering a container
EXEC -IT: Used for re-entering an already running container
6. How to convert Container to Image?
Use the "docker commit" command with container ID
7. What is NGINX?
Open source web server used for reverse proxy, caching, load balancing, and media streaming
8. Port Mapping:
Use -P flag with format: VM_port:container_port (e.g., -P 8080:80)
First port is for VM, second port is for container
9. How to run container in background?
Use -d (detached mode) flag with docker run command
10. How to name a container?
Use --name flag: docker run --name your_name
Scenario 1: Docker Pull vs Docker Run
Question: What is the difference between docker pull and docker run commands?
Answer: Docker pull only downloads the image. Docker run downloads the image (if not available) and also creates and runs a container from that image.

Scenario 2: Container Not Visible
Question: Why is the container not visible when running docker ps after running a container?
Answer: The container has exited and is not in running state. To see exited containers, use docker ps -A (or docker ps hyphen A). To restart it, use docker start .

Scenario 3: Getting Back into Container
Question: How to get back into an exited container?
Answer: First start the container using docker start , then use docker exec -it /bin/bash to get inside the container.

Scenario 4: IT vs EXEC Command
Question: What is the difference between docker run -it and docker exec -it?
Answer: Docker run -it is used for the first time to create and enter a container interactively. Docker exec -it is used to enter an already running container.

Scenario 5: Port Mapping Issue
Question: Why can't I access NGINX on the browser after running the container?
Answer: Port mapping was not done. Need to use docker run -p 8080:80 nginx to map the container port to the VM port (first port is for VM, second is for container).

Scenario 6: Container to Image
Question: How to convert a container back to an image?
Answer: Use docker commit command.
nginx path inside container: /usr/share/nginx/html
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 1: How do you unlock Jenkins when running it in a Docker container for the first time?
Answer: You need to execute into the container using "docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash", then run "cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword" to get the unlock password. Copy this password and paste it in the Jenkins UI to unlock it. This is required because when Jenkins is installed for the first time, you need to prove you're the admin by retrieving the password from the server.

Question 2: How much time does it take to create and run a Docker container?
Answer: First time when the image is not available locally, it takes around 1-2 seconds including download and container creation time (based on image size). Second time onwards, it takes only around 69 milliseconds since the image is already downloaded. You can check this using the "time" command before your docker run command.

Question 3: Can Alpine Linux be used in production environments?
Answer: Yes, Alpine is widely used in production for Dockerized applications because it is lightweight (3-8 MB size depending on version). It's very popular for containerization due to its small size, which is ideal for Docker's purpose of creating lightweight images.

Question 4: How do you check CPU and memory consumption of running containers?
Answer: Use the "docker stats" command to see real-time CPU and memory consumption of all running containers. Note that only running containers consume CPU/memory - images just have a size and don't consume resources until they're running as containers.

Question 5: How many web servers can you run on a single VM?
Answer: You can run multiple containers (10, 20, 100+) on a single VM depending on the VM's capacity. This can be done using loops in scripting. However, for port mapping with multiple NGINX containers, you would need load balancers or Kubernetes pods to properly distribute requests.

Question 6: Can you set limits on how much memory a container should use?
Answer: Yes, you can set resource limits on containers (this was confirmed in the discussion, with Kubernetes providing.

Q1: How much time does it take to create and run a Docker container?
A: First time when the image is not available locally, it takes around 1-2 seconds (including download time). Second time onwards, it takes only 50-100 milliseconds since the image is already downloaded. You can check the exact time using the "time" command before the docker run command.

Q2: What is Alpine and can it be used in production?
A: Alpine is the smallest/lightweight Linux operating system with a size of approximately 3-8 MB (depending on version). Yes, Alpine is widely used in production for Dockerized applications because of its lightweight nature, which is ideal for containerization.

Q3: How do you check CPU and memory consumption of running containers?
A: Use the command "docker stats" to see CPU and memory consumption of all running containers in real-time. Note that only running containers consume CPU/memory - images just have a storage size.

Q4: How do you get the Jenkins initial admin password from a Docker container?
A: You need to execute into the container using "docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash" and then run "cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword" to get the unlock password.

Q5: How do you map a custom HTML file to an NGINX container?
A: Use volume mapping with the -v flag: docker run -p 80:80 -d -v /path/to/your/html:/usr/share/nginx/html nginx. The VM location comes first, then the container location.

Q6: How many containers can run on a single VM?
A: Multiple containers can run on a single VM depending on the VM's capacity. You can create multiple containers using loops, but for web servers requiring different ports, you would need load balancers or Kubernetes pods for proper management.

Q: How to install Docker?
A: Use command: sudo apt-get update && sudo apt install docker.io -y

Q: What is Alpine?
A: Alpine is the smallest operating system used in Docker, with size around 3-8 MB depending on version. It can be used in production for lightweight containerized applications.

Q: How to check Docker container CPU and memory usage?
A: Use command: docker stats

Q: How to get Jenkins unlock password from container?
A: First exec into container: docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash
Then run: cat /var/jenkins_home/secrets/initialAdminPassword

Q: How much time does it take to run a container?
A: First time (with image download): 1-2 seconds. Second time (image already present): Less than 100 milliseconds. Use "time" command before docker run to check exact time.

Q: Can we check CPU/memory for Docker images?
A: No, only running containers consume CPU/memory. Images only have storage size.

Q: How to map custom HTML file to Nginx container?
A: Use volume mapping: docker run -p 80:80 -d -v /path/to/your/index.html:/usr/share/nginx/html nginx

Q: Can we set limits on container resource usage?
A: Yes, it can be done (detailed configuration will be covered in Kubernetes sessions).

Q: How to remove a container?
A: docker rm <container_id> or docker rm -f <container_id> (forcefully)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Scenario 1: Docker Installation Approach
Q: Which approach should be used to install Docker?
A: Two approaches were discussed - direct installation and scripted approach. The scripted approach was chosen as it's more efficient and doesn't require much manual effort.

Scenario 2: Image Size Optimization
Q: Client wants to reduce the Docker image size from 120MB. How to optimize?
A: Multiple solutions were discussed:

Use Alpine Linux instead of Ubuntu (reduces to 30-50MB)
Use official nginx image directly instead of installing it
Merge multiple RUN commands into one line
Remove unnecessary packages and avoid additional dependencies
Scenario 3: Docker Login Authentication
Q: What to do when getting authentication/authorization failed error during docker push?
A: Run "docker login" command, copy the URL provided, paste in browser, copy the one-time password, and paste it back in terminal to complete authentication.

Scenario 4: Container Not Running
Q: Image created successfully but container showing in "docker ps -a" but not in "docker ps". Why?
A: The container needs to be started. The EXPOSE keyword might be missing in Dockerfile. For nginx, port 80 must be exposed for it to work properly.

Scenario 5: Heavy Machine Requirements
Q: Docker Desktop consuming too much memory and CPU. What to do?
A: Docker Desktop requires heavy machine with at least 12GB RAM (6GB for Docker + 6GB for Kubernetes). If machine has less memory, better to use cloud-based virtual machines or Docker Playground instead of local installation.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. What is a Dockerfile?
Answer: A Dockerfile is a text document with no extension that contains all the commands to assemble an image. Docker builds the image automatically by reading the instructions from the Dockerfile.

2. What is the difference between RUN and CMD?
Answer: RUN is used for operating system level commands (like apt update, apt install). CMD is used for application level commands. RUN executes commands while building the image, whereas CMD specifies the command to run when the container starts.

3. What is the FROM keyword?
Answer: FROM is used to select the base image (operating system) for the Dockerfile. For example, FROM Ubuntu or FROM Alpine.

4. What is the difference between COPY and ADD commands?
Answer: COPY is used to copy files and directories from the host machine to the container/image. ADD is used to download and add files from the internet (URL). ADD is not recommended because:

Security vulnerabilities
Slower image build time due to downloads
Internet availability issues
URLs can change, causing build failures
5. What is ENTRYPOINT?
Answer: ENTRYPOINT is the first script or command to be run as soon as the container is ready. It's the initialization command for the container.

6. What is ENV keyword?
Answer: ENV is used to set environment variables inside the container.

7. What is EXPOSE keyword?
Answer: EXPOSE is used to expose specific ports so the application can be accessible. For example, nginx runs on port 80, so you need to expose that port.

8. What is WORKDIR?
Answer: WORKDIR sets the current working directory where activities will be performed inside the container.

9. What is the extension of a Dockerfile?
Answer: There is no extension for a Dockerfile.

10. What is a golden image/golden copy?
Answer: A golden image is a pure, vulnerability-free, hardened image that has been approved by the security team for use in production.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Q1: A client sends you a Docker image as a TAR file. How would you use it?
A: Use the docker load command to convert the TAR file back into a Docker image. Then you can run containers from that image.

Q2: Your container is running but you need to check what's happening inside. What commands would you use for troubleshooting?
A:

docker inspect <container_name> - to get detailed information about container configuration, IP address, network settings
docker logs <container_name> - to view container logs
docker logs -f <container_name> - to follow logs in real-time
docker stats <container_name> - to check CPU and memory usage
docker top <container_name> - to see running processes
Q3: You installed Python inside a running Ubuntu container. Is Python now part of the Ubuntu image?
A: No. Python is installed only inside the container, not in the base image. To save this as a new image, you need to use docker commit <container_id> <new_image_name>.

Q4: Your Docker environment is running slow and consuming too much disk space. How would you handle this?
A:

First, run docker system df to check disk space usage and what can be reclaimed
Before cleanup, take approval from manager/client
Use docker system prune to remove stopped containers, unused networks, and dangling images
Use docker image prune specifically for cleaning up unused images
Q5: A container failed with "out of memory" error. What could be the reason and how would you investigate?
A: The container consumed more memory than allocated and got killed. Use docker stats to monitor memory usage and docker inspect to check container configuration. You may need to allocate more resources to the container.

Q6: How do you enable communication between multiple containers?
A: Create a Docker network using docker network create <network_name>, then run containers with --network <network_name> flag to connect them to the same network.
















